HOME
Hello and welcome to Alpha Phi Omega’s Omicron Iota Chapter website! Alpha Phi Omega was founded in 1925, and our chapter at Worcester Polytechnic Institute was established in 1964. Alpha Phi Omega is a co-ed service fraternity dedicated to providing service to our fraternity, our campuses, our communities, and our nation and world.


Our chapter here at WPI regularly provides service opportunities for its members to participate in a variety of services. We also offer fellowships where our members can socialize and form friendships within the chapter. This chapter is led by an executive and chair board that work together to offer unique services and fellowships and to support the semester’s pledge class.


The members of this chapter are brought together by a dedication to improving their local communities. The leadership skills and experience that they gain with Alpha Phi Omega will help them become leaders and active community members for the rest of their lives.


If you are interested in joining our chapter, click here to view our recruitment page. If you have any questions, you can contact the Membership Vice President at apo-membership@wpi.edu.


HISTORY
The National Fraternity
Alpha Phi Omega was founded on December 16, 1925 at Lafayette College in Easton, Pennsylvania. It has grown to be the largest collegiate fraternity in the United States, and also has chapters in the Philippines, Australia, and Canada. Alpha Phi Omega was founded by Frank Reed Horton and several former Boy Scouts, and is officially recognized by the Boy Scouts of America. In 1976, fraternity membership was fully opened to women, making the fraternity co-ed. All of the members of the fraternity are referred to as “brothers,” which we use as a gender-neutral term. There are now over 350 active chapters at colleges within the United States.


Omicron Iota
Our chapter was founded on December 18, 1964. We are a strong chapter of enthusiastic and active brothers, and regularly perform between 1,500-2,500 hours of community service each semester. Our brothers have grown to be leaders not just in our chapter, but as PLAs, supervisors on campus, and leaders in other clubs and greek life on campus. We host recruitment at the beginning of each semester in which we encourage members of the WPI community to pledge and become brothers. If you are interested in joining our chapter, please visit our recruitment page!


SERVICE


As a chapter of Alpha Phi Omega, Omicron Iota coordinates and participates in a variety of community services benefiting our brotherhood, our campus, our community, and our nation and world. Each member of our chapter is required to complete at least 20 hours of community service each semester. The service events for each semester are organized by our Service Vice Presidents, our annual service chair, and weekly service chair, who are all vital to scheduling and supervising service events.


>Freshman Move-In
On the day that WPI’s freshman move into their dorms for the first time, our chapter carries boxes, mini refrigerators, and suitcases up the stairs of their residence hall. We and other greek organizations are the first people to welcome the freshman to the WPI campus by assisting with unloading and transporting the contents of their cars. All of our members attend this event to help the freshman class!


>Merit Badge University
Our Merit Badge University is one of our annual service events, where we instruct over 200 Boy Scouts in merit badge classes on two weekends in November and December. The Boy Scouts that attend have the opportunity to earn up to three merit badges, which help them on their path to becoming Eagle Scouts. The classes are taught primarily by members of our chapter and volunteers from the WPI community. If you are a Boy Scout or parent of Boy Scout interested in signing up for this year’s MBU, please visit our MBU website.


>Raffle for Relief
Our Raffle for Relief in the Spring of 2018 benefited United for Puerto Rico, an organization dedicated to disaster relief in Puerto Rico. We sold raffle tickets to the students and faculty of WPI. The raffle baskets included items donated and solicited by our members. In the Spring of 2018 we raises $1,000 through our raffle efforts!


>Other Services
Beyond our large annual services, we offer several service opportunities during the week and on the weekends to our members. Some of the organizations we work with are Operation Gratitude, Habitat for Humanity, the Girl Scouts of America, Arts Worcester, Wachusett Greenways, and other groups that benefit the Worcester community. We also partner with clubs or greek life on campus for select service events.


LEADERSHIP


>Executive Board


President - Zayla Schaeffer


Service Vice Presidents - Alexa Davis and Nathan Dennler


Membership Vice President - Finn O’Brien


Fellowship Vice Presidents - Mitch Read and Marisa Sposato
Pledge Trainers - Emily DiRuzza and Sarah O’Neil


Secretary - Jordan Myers


Treasurer - Kristen Dettloff


Historian - Matthew Lamare


Public Relations - Steven Franca


Sergeant at Arms - Jonathan Venne


>Chapter Awards
Our chapter receives awards on the sectional, regional and national level for a variety of things, from having the most man-miles and best conference roll call to creating a pledge program of excellence! Here are some of the awards we are enjoyed receiving the most:
THINGS NEED TO GO HERE


FRIENDSHIP


Fellowships
Fellowships help us to grow closer as a fraternity! Some of our most popular fellowships are potlucks, friendsgiving, sparkling cider and cheese night, and our brownie social (unsurprisingly, we are known as the “food chapter”). Most of the fellowships we have are coordinated by the Fellowship Vice Presidents, but individual members of the chapter are also encouraged to organize fellowships for activities they are passionate about.


RECRUITMENT


>Schedule
We run recruitment twice each year in the Spring and Fall semesters! Our recruitment period usually starts 1-2 weeks into A or C term. Our recruitment schedule will be finalized closer to the beginning of the term, so check back in or find our facebook event at the beginning of the semester! You can also visit us during our tablesitting in the campus center to pick up a schedule. During our recruitment period, we ask that potential members come to one service, fellowship, brother meeting, and info session to be considered for a bid.


>Pledging
Once the recruitment period has ended, bids are given to potential members that have shown interest in joining Alpha Phi Omega. Those that accept their bids enter a period of pledging, where they have some service and fellowship requirements, learn about Alpha Phi Omega, and get to know the members of our chapter. Each pledge is given a “Big” to help mentor them through this process.


>FAQs


Can I join Alpha Phi Omega and still be in a social fraternity/sorority on campus?
Yes! Alpha Phi Omega is categorized as a service fraternity, so you can participate in both our organization and other greek life on campus. We actually think it’s really good when our members are in several other clubs because that makes it easier to do events with other groups.


Do I have to be a freshman to join?
We let people of all years join our chapter, including graduate students!


Does APO have a house?
We do not have a house - this is one of the things that set us apart from social fraternities and sororities. We do have an office on the third floor of Olin where we can store our supplies, do homework, and have meetings!


What are the requirements for pledges?
The requirements for the pledge class change slightly each semester. The pledge requirements are detailed in the info sessions for each recruitment period, and can be requested from the Pledge Trainers or the Membership Vice President. The normal requirements are:
* 16 Service Hours
* 4-5 Fellowships
* Interviews and hangouts with brothers
* Executive board signatures
* Spend time with your Big(s)


What leadership opportunities can APO offer me?
We have many elected and appointed officer and chair positions within the chapter. Members in their first semester may hold chair positions such as intramural chair, weekly service chair, and web chair. Members in their second semester may hold chair or officer positions. We also host committees that any members and pledges may join. Nationally, there are leadership development classes offered to members and pledges of the fraternity either online or in person. These include the 5-part APO LEADS program, APO IMPACT webinars and Online Learning Center courses.


Why do students join APO?
Most of our members come to APO looking for service opportunities, either to continue service-oriented habits they formed in high school or to give back to the campus and community. We often find that students come for the service and stay for the fellowship and leadership! The fellowship and leadership opportunities that we offer help distinguish our chapter from service-oriented clubs on campus and retain our members. However, service is the first priority of our members.


CONTACT


If you are interested in joining our chapter of APO, please reach out to our Membership Vice President at apo-membership@wpi.edu.


If you are interested in working on a service project with us, please contact our Service Vice Presidents at apo-service@wpi.edu.


If you represent another club on campus and you would like to coordinate a joint fellowship or social, please contact our Fellowship Vice Presidents at apo-fellowship@wpi.edu.


If you have questions regarding this website, you can contact the web chair at apo-webchair@wpi.edu.


If you have any other questions, please contact the chapter President at apo-president@wpi.edu.


TERMS OF SERVICE

>National Disclaimer


This electronic document is intended for public viewing and is solely for personal reference. It should not be considered an authoritative source nor an official publication of Alpha Phi Omega. Inquiries regarding Alpha Phi Omega and its official publications may be directed to:

Alpha Phi Omega
1441 East 104th Street
Kansas City, MO 64131

"Alpha Phi Omega" is a copyrighted, registered trademark in the USA.
All rights reserved.


>Privacy Policy
Definitions

Omicron Iota: The Omicron Iota chapter of Alpha Phi Omega at Worcester Polytechnic Institute.
Website: All files under the following domain: http://users.wpi.edu/~apo/
Content: Any text, images, videos, applets, documents, multimedia presentations, and any other part of the Omicron Iota website that a user can view.
User: Any person who views pages and content presented on the website.
Terms of Service



What information does this website collect and when?
This website does not collect any personal information from users. This website does host images and associated metadata from Facebook. These images are uploaded by brothers, pledges, and/or prospective pledges of Omicron Iota and tagged to a Facebook account controlled by Omicron Iota. It is possible for users to log into Facebook and register their accounts with the app on this website. However, this process will only retrieve an access token, which is not stored and is only viewable by the user. This process does not access any personal information whatsoever.

Images on this website feature brothers, pledges, and prospective pledges of Omicron Iota. On occasion, they may also feature individuals who do not fall into the categories just described. Omicron Iota respects the privacy of these individuals and will prevent such images from appearing on the website at the request of these individuals.

What does this website use your information for?
As we do not collect user information, we do not use user information for anything at all. However, we do use the images tagged to the Omicron Iota’s Facebook account for presentation purposes only. This content will not be used to identify, incriminate, slander, exploit, or otherwise harm the people depicted in this content.

How does this website protect your information?
While we do not collect user information, we do collect images and associated metadata. We do not store this content; therefore, we do not have any reason to protect this content. We do store access information to pull this content from Facebook, which is obfuscated within a java applet.

Does this website use cookies?
We do not use cookies, but we may in the future use client-side cookies a yet-to-be-foreseen purpose. We will modify this policy when that happens.

Does this website disclose any information to outside parties?
As we do not collect information, this website cannot and does not store, rent, sell, lease, distribute, read, redirect, or obliterate any user information.

Third Party Links
Occasionally, at the discretion of the web chair, this website may include or offer third party products or services. These third party sites have separate and independent privacy policies. Omicron Iota therefore has no responsibility or liability for the content and activities of these linked sites. Nonetheless, Omicron Iota seeks to protect the integrity of this site and welcomes any feedback about these sites.

Sub-domain
This website is published on web servers owned and operated by Worcester Polytechnic Institute (WPI). This policy is subject to the policies and regulations of WPI. Where this policy conflicts with the policies and regulations of WPI, their policy and/or regulation will apply.

Online Privacy Policy Only
This online privacy policy applies only to information collected through this website and not to information collected offline.

Your Consent
By using this website, you consent to this privacy policy.

Changes to this Privacy Policy
All changes to this policy will be reflected on this page and recent changes will be noted at the top of this page. The last-modified date will change to reflect the date of these changes.

Contact Us
If you wish to contact the web chair, please use the link at the bottom of the home page.


>Terms of Service

This website was created for and is managed by Omicron Iota. Property of content on this site is determined by the laws of the United States, the national office of Alpha Phi Omega, and Worcester Polytechnic Institute.

This website contains images that have been uploaded to the Facebook social site by brothers, pledges, and prospective pledges of Omicron Iota. These images are tagged to an account maintained by Omicron Iota for the purposes of archive and presentation. The presentation of these and other images on this site is for presentational purposes only. The individuals uploading the images are responsible for their content and appropriateness with regards to the reputation of Omicron Iota and Alpha Phi Omega. The policies of Facebook require that the web chair is responsible for content appearing on this website when such content originates from Facebook. The web chair, Omicron Iota, and Facebook reserve the right to censor content from appearing on the website when such content originates from Facebook.

This website does not provide any incentive to use Facebook social channels. Users are not obligated in any way to interact with content and functionality presented by Facebook.

The opinions expressed on this website do not endorse Facebook in any way whatsoever. Furthermore, Facebook does not endorse this website, Omicron Iota, or the national office of Alpha Phi Omega.

This website is published on web servers owned and operated by Worcester Polytechnic Institute (WPI). These terms are subject to the policies and regulations of WPI. Where these terms conflict with the policies and regulations of WPI, their policies and/or regulations will apply.

These terms of service apply only to services provided by this website and not to services provided offline.

By using this website, you consent to these terms of service.
